[Music]
I actually love this thing I love this
thing not because it's Flawless or
anything it is far from Flawless but
because it's actually interesting like
don't forget the last two three years of
Apple product review comments are just
um that's boring oh it's just a spec
bump there's nothing really new here oh
they hardly change anything or try
anything new these days but this this
thing is interesting it's risky and most
of all it's new now it's actually not
fundamentally new it's a VR headset but
it's new for apple and there are a bunch
of things in here that are new in a way
that only Apple would try and just as
interesting as this individual product
is the possible future that this implies
like when you get a first generation
product like this you sort of
automatically assume that there are
goals for its future that it'll have
another generation and another one after
that and that there is some goal for
what this will turn into 10 years down
the road because we saw what happened
with the iPhone and the mac and the iPad
and all sorts of other first generation
products and on top of all of that as
far as I know Apple has never released
any other first generation product with
the word Pro already in the name which
comes with a whole another set of
implications so is the world ready for
all of
this let's get into
it
[Music]
[Applause]
so I might be one of the 20 people
outside of Apple who has been using the
Vision Pro the most over the past two
weeks like I've spent hours in this
thing with both bands with multiple Macs
in different setups different rooms
indoors and Outdoors lightness and
darkness there are parts of this thing
that are absolutely amazing unparalleled
best I've ever seen but the reason it's
so interesting is because it's actually
new and there are downfalls and flaws
and tradeoffs that come alongside all of
this stuff so at the end of the last
video I gave you guys a sort of a
preview of my pros and cons list if you
haven't already watched that video it is
definitely worth watching almost like a
prequel to this one it is a 30 minute
monster all about how to use this thing
how it works what's inside what it's
capable of and then at the end I got to
my upsides which are immersiveness
placement and space eye tracking and
hand control pass through ecosystem and
spatial audio and the downsides which
are weight and comfort the eyes on the
outside app selection right now battery
life and price so okay for starters I
want to amend immersiveness to Fidelity
I think that's more accurate here I have
used a bunch of different VR headsets
now and this Vision Pro has has the
sharpest best looking micro OLED display
out of all of them the size of
individual pixels on these displays is 7
1 12 microns which means you could fit
64 of them in the size of a single
iPhone screens pixel you can't see
individual pixels there's no screen door
effect it's awesome the native refresh
rate is 90 HZ and it will crank up to 96
HZ when there's 24 FPS content playing
to be an even multiple and apple says
that they calibrate every single one of
these Vision Pro displays
from the factory for maximum color
accuracy they're really good and this is
a big reason why this headset is so
expensive but then and this is going to
be a recurring theme Here The Vision Pro
runs up against the technology of today
not being quite Advanced enough to
accomplish what they were probably
hoping as ideal so in the case of these
screens right they're amazing there are
so many pixels but because there's so
many pixels the computer inside cannot
actually render everything in high
resolution all the time at 90 HZ so
instead it does something clever it
combines the insanely fast eye tracking
with what's called fiated rendering
meaning it's only actually rendering in
high resolution exactly what you're
looking at when you're looking at it the
rest is soft and fuzzy that actually
works really well because that's exactly
how our eyes work it's really clever
like you don't think about it but the
thing that you're looking at at the
moment is sharp but then the rest of
your peripheral vision is is soft and
fuzzy and that's fine so really now all
the Computing work is being done to
track your eyes as fast as possible so
that there's no lag between when you
look at something and when it becomes
sharp fun fact you can actually see this
in screen recordings from The Vision Pro
you can see the piece of the screen that
I'm looking at is sharp and then
everything else around it even parts of
the same window are fuzzy on purpose but
to my eye that looks totally natural
because I'm focusing on one thing at a
time I found that you can also screen
record with developer mode in xcode and
that will make the clips 4K and it'll
render everything in HQ all at once but
every time I did that it would be choppy
and scrolling would be slow and jittery
and I'm thinking that's just because the
computers aren't really used to
rendering everything in high quality all
the time so it looks like a higher
quality recording but the second I did
any scrolling it didn't look as good so
I just didn't use those recordings as
often so the screens are great the
position tracking of objects in space
are great the eye tracking is incredibly
good the one ding against immersion on
the Vision Pro though and not a lot of
people are talking about this but it's
the field of view see the first few
times you use this headset you don't
even really think about it that much
you're so distracted by all the fun and
the newness and how cool it is that your
eyes are controlling the thing but
eventually you start to poke around the
edges and it turns out you know how
people are saying this kind of looks
like ski goggles from the outside well
it also kind of looks like ski goggles
from the inside a little bit too again
the middle is super sharp and Incredibly
impressive iive but if I can do my best
here through a YouTube video the edges
of the headset are a little bit further
in than the edges of your vision and so
there's a little bit of like a cone
effect going on and there's some
chromatic aberration around the outside
so you kind of have this slight feeling
of looking into a large tunnel at
everything there are actually no field
of view numbers published by Apple
anywhere about Vision Pro as far as I
can tell and I kind of think that's on
purpose because I have noticed from
using them both that the quest 3 has a
better wider field of view just looking
inside the headset so if I could change
one thing about the Vision Pro to make
it more immersive it would be a wider
field of view no
question Vision Pro has the best pass
through of any headset I've ever used
that much is super clear to me and
weirdly enough this doesn't actually
surprise me either maybe because this is
one of the products that makes it so
obvious that they're thinking a lot
about the future like apple talks a lot
about AR and how they want things to
just be clear and just overlaying things
onto your real world but with today's
technology again that's not quite
possible yet so instead they have a VR
headset but they are using the highest
quality camera feeds possible and the
highest quality displays on the inside
possible to let you almost feel like
you're looking through it at the real
world so you put this headset on and the
first thing you see is pass through I
mean you might as well call it
transparency mode and the sharpness and
the colors and the very low lat are all
so good that I really don't experience
any eye fatigue no matter how long I am
in this pass through mode despite my
eyes being inches from these screens I
can interact with the real world around
me pick things up and look at them I can
walk around between rooms and not trip
on things I tried having people throw
things at me and I could just catch them
I played table tennis successfully with
the headset on which is crazy if you
think about what's actually happening
here the total latency Apple says is 12
milliseconds that's from the outside
light hitting the outside sensors to the
inside image being updated and hitting
your eyeballs that's incredibly fast
that's and that includes the exposure
time of the cameras that's the specially
designed R1 chip at work but as Nei from
The Verge has put it it's still cameras
and screens like the technology of today
isn't Magic so you still have to expose
a camera sensor and set ISO and shutter
speed Etc and you can kind of play
around with this a bit just by looking
around like at bright objects or high
dynamic range environments and you know
what for the variety of situations I've
thrown at this thing it's handled it
very impressively the whole time mostly
prioritizing smoothness and high shutter
speeds at the expense of cranking up the
iso and getting way more noise
especially in Darker environments but
you can still see stuff like the hand
occlusion break sometimes or look really
janky when you put your hand in front of
something you can still see objects
start to float a little bit more an X Y
and Z space swinger in much lower
lighting as opposed to the usual perfect
position again it's the best I've ever
seen with today's Tech but it definitely
still has a long way to
go so honestly the ecosystem is I would
say the strongest argument for a regular
person going out and buying today's
version of The Vision Pro like I I every
time a new big product comes out or
whatever I get like texts from people oh
hey Marquez you know I know you already
made like a 30 minute video about it and
like unboxed it and did all that but
like what do you what do you really
think about the Vision Pro like is it is
it good enough should I get
one and truthfully probably not but I
will say that there are a good amount of
things that I do specifically look
forward to using for it and uh most of
those things are ecosystem related so
obviously there's the built-in apps
right iMessage works perfectly just like
any iPhone or iPad on your account
photos are all loaded up in here
straight from your iPhone this is
clearly the headset that is best for
iPhone users Apple ecosystem people but
also little things too like continuity
so I can copy some text on my Mac or my
iPhone and then hit paste and it shows
up in the Vision Pro but there's two
really impressive ones to me uh for very
different specific reasons FaceTime and
Mac virtual display see FaceTime is the
most
only Apple could ship this thing I've
seen in a long time from the personas
scanned in from the cameras on the front
of the headset to the positional
tracking and responsiveness of the
spatial audio it's all so well thought
out that you know once everyone on the
call gets past the initial like ah what
is this the shock the moment they first
see the virtual version of you once they
first get past that then it actually
kind of slowly gets easier and it feels
way more like a normal conversation than
a normal FaceTime and it trades the
downside of not being able to hold up
objects to your camera for a button that
can switch to a realtime firstperson
view where you can use both hands
instead of one does the audio from these
speakers still bleed out into the rest
of the world so anything over half
volume is incredibly audible to everyone
in the room around you yeah but does it
also still sound really really
impressive for not actually being real
headphones yeah but the other thing is
Mac virtual display this is my number
one favorite feature of the Vision Pro
even over like watching movies and stuff
now first of all yes you can already do
remote desktop viewing on something like
a quest 3 it's great I love that too but
this this one is way more interesting so
this is connecting to your Mac and then
intaking and rendering a new virtual
display for your Mac not mirroring
what's already being shown by your
computer so you can use your Mac with
all its existing controls you're already
using with it but make your new monitor
literally as big as you want and then
you can open up simultaneous Vision Pro
apps all around that Mac display and
place them all around the room wherever
you want over the walls floating in
midair pin them to other objects
whatever you can go nuts now is this
perfect no there are definitely
trade-offs from even the little things
like not being able to see your keyboard
when you're in an immersive environment
to only being able to have a single
virtual Mac monitor at a time to always
having to look where you're controlling
I keep telling you guys there's
definitely extra brain Cycles involved
here but I do still think that despite
all that this is this is my number one
favorite feature of this Vision Pro the
number one thing that you can buy it for
and do that you couldn't do with any
other Apple product I mean it's the
difference between looking like this in
a coffee shop or looking like this in a
coffee shop pick your poison I guess I
also had a moment where I was using the
VIS Pro for a while and I had my Mac and
some other monitors around me and then I
took it off and then I went and did
something and then I came back and
before I put the headset back on I
looked up at the wall to where I thought
a window was going to be but I
hadn't I
hadn't I don't know if that says more
about the headset or about
me but speaking of apps we got to get
into the weaknesses and the app
situation on Vision Pro right now is one
of them so this is the home screen of
the Vision Pro it has all of your apps
you can't rearrange them it's always
alphabetical and this is a developing
situation that will record and improve
over time but as of right now as I
record this on launch day there are
literally 600 apps made for the Vision
Pro and that sounds like a lot at first
but then kind of not a lot there are
also the millions of other apps that are
made for the iPad that are compatible
with the Vision Pro that will show up
but there's 600 apps made specifically
for the Vision Pro the few apps that are
showing up here are pretty incredible
and they all kind of find unique and
creative ways to take advantage of the
3D space and I fully believe the rest of
the developers are also kind of still
trying to figure out what to do with the
3D space in their own apps or even if it
makes sense to do anything at all beyond
the normal iPad app but at this point
right now today I honestly believe that
there are way more cool ideas about VR
and AR experiences than there are actual
apps now don't get me wrong there are
some cool apps and like I said I've
shown some in the past video there are
some more in this video and there will
be more of that pop up every day but
have you seen that video of gamifying
vacuum cleaning so that you can actually
cover your entire floor space like a
game it's not a real app but if it was
it would be pretty sick and I would
totally use it or maybe you've seen that
other video of watching an F1 race in
Vision Pro it is so sick it's like
there's a virtual track over overlaid
into your space so you can keep track of
everything happening at once plus the
times and you know smaller video feeds
of the battles around different points
of the track this looks genuinely better
than the actual TV broadcast experience
but it's also not a real app yet it's
just a concept and I've seen all kinds
of other stuff and I I want to watch an
NBA game courts side in the Vision Pro
too but that experience doesn't seem to
exist yet either whatever it is about
like apple jumping into this new space
and all the implications of like oh okay
the tech is going to start to get better
now this sort of unlocked this new
creative layer for people to dream of
new AR and VR experiences and it'll be
up to developers to actually make that
stuff happen over time with the
constraints of today's technology but as
of right now not a lot of apps also no
YouTube app no Netflix app there's no
Spotify app there's no Tik Tock app yet
I hope that Apple can sort of patch up
the relationship with these developers
because getting those apps will make
this a better product but as of right
now that is definitely a weakness of
this first gen
product all right I'm not the only one
who's been saying this but this is not
the most comfortable headset and I
figured out why so first of all
everyone's mentioned the weight and it's
true it does weigh like 25% more than a
lot of other headsets like take the
quest 3 for example probably the most
popular one familiar to most people
that's mostly plastic and it weighs 515
G so Vision Pro being made of metal and
having all this glass weighing in at
nearly 650 g it kind of seems like apple
just didn't care about the weight but I
don't think that's the case matter of
fact if you've seen the tear Downs or if
you've seen what's inside this little
computer here on your face this is built
incredibly efficiently there's carbon
fiber in here magnesium all sorts of
other lightweight materials now there's
still lots of obvious heft on it but 25%
more weight shouldn't be the difference
between comfortable and like I need to
do neck exercises no the problem is this
strap this is the solo knit strap this
is the strap that's in all the
commercials that everybody sees this is
what's on Apple's website it's in all
the Apple Stores because it looks so
cool and I think when Apple was probably
first deciding okay we're going to get
into this VR headset Market how do we
differentiate ourselves we got to
reinvent a few things like the input
method and all this stuff I think they
thought the strap had to be one of them
and that's how we got this thing and I
think Dave 2D was spoton in his recent
video VR headsets just kind of all look
dumb and the straps on them are all so
universally lame looking and this this
strap is just so much cooler you put it
on it's the quickest to adjust it messes
up your hair the least it obviously has
this little adjustment thing on the
outside so you can scroll this wheel and
satisfyingly like tighten the cables
inside like this this must have taken a
lot of R&D to get this thing to look
iconic and actually be functional this
is sick but when you put it on you sort
of tighten it up against the front of
your face and it's putting it's
squeezing it up against your face all of
the weight up at the front against
basically these two pressure points
right above your eyes and right on your
cheeks and the more you tighten it to
prevent light leak the more
uncomfortable it gets and it's just it's
so hard to wear this for more than about
30 45 minutes after 45 minutes I really
do need to take this off so it's not
your neck as much as it's just all the
pressure on the front of your face and
apple knows this and that's why they've
included in the Box this second band
this is the Dual Loop band and it's
super easy to pop this one off and pop
this one on now it's not as cool looking
as a solo knit band and it's going to
mess up your hair more than the solo
knit band and it's not as easy to adjust
as a solo knit band you're literally
like trying to find an attach velcro
blindly at the top of your head
basically it's almost as lame looking as
every other VR headset strap but it
turns out they all look like this for a
reason and oh my God is it's so much
better for wearing it for a long time I
just recently did the last episode of
the waveform podcast you can go
subscribe over there I wore the headset
for the entire thing a 2hour recording
and I could never have done that with
the solo knit band and that's because
it's taking a ton of the pressure off of
the front of your face and taking the
weight and using the top of your head to
support it instead it's so much better
so if you're going to just hand the
headset to someone to use it for like 5
minutes this solo knit band is great
because it's super quick doesn't mess up
their hair easy to adjust boom but if
you plan on using this thing for an
extensive period of time yeah the the
Dual Loop band is 100% the way to go
so I don't know if the eyes on the
outside of this headset are actually
accomplishing what Apple probably wanted
them to accomplish I think this again
comes down to what we expect Vision Pro
to be in the future see-through glasses
way down the line but that's obviously
not possible with today's Tech so the
closest we can get is a lenticular
display that shows your eyes to the
outside world and so that you can see
them and they can kind of see you I
don't know at this point I've tried my
eyes but also everyone else here at the
studio has also scanned themselves in
and tried it eyesight and it's just not
very visible like the smooth glass of
the headset is so incredibly reflective
that there's almost always some light
bouncing off it in a way that makes the
eyes hard to see and even if you can see
it it's pretty low resolution thanks to
the lenticular display and the bottom
line is it doesn't actually feel like
eye contact most of the time which is
very different from what you might have
seen in the ads especially for darker
skin tones and I was actually thinking
about this like this is so far from what
I think I expected that I was wondering
does Apple in the Next Generation Vision
Pro double down on eyesight or do they
get rid of it and I think they have to
keep it like it's such an iconic part of
the headset that everyone's expecting it
to stay so it's got to be there but also
this is Vision Pro and it I think that
implies that we're going to get apple
Vision at some point down the road which
is like a less expensive version of this
and with that do you take out eyesight
or does that still appear in the
lower-end
version I don't know only time will
tell so all right look at the end of the
day when I'm answering those texts about
what do people want to know what I
really think about Vision Pro I think
the Vision Pro is a really expensive
really fun toy like this is an
incredibly fun piece of tech to play
with and I am loving watching the pieces
of media built specifically for Vision
Pro I am loving playing some of the new
early games that are taking advantage of
the 3D space and the hand controls I am
loving the idea of getting on a plane
and editing videos on my Mac or watching
a movie on a gigantic screen while the
person next to me can't see any of what
I'm doing that stuff is all so sick and
if you're actually thinking about buying
one I think you should be able to expect
to enjoy all of that same stuff too but
definitely still note that all of the
symptoms of a first generation product
are definitely also still here it's
heavy it's not a lot of apps the battery
life is meh and it's expensive so here's
the bigger question is the Vision Pro a
guaranteed success in the future because
the first generation iPhone had all of
the same downfalls in its generation and
look at where we are now so also same
with the watch same with the iPad but
here's the thing you can't just say the
other stuff had problems and it became
successful therefore this one having
problems also means it's successful it
doesn't work that way there has to be
something about this that people
actually like that makes them willing to
overlook the first generation downfalls
and I think this has it I I think it has
I honestly it's kind of just the Sci-Fi
fun nature of like controlling things
with your hands moving Windows around
the room the sci-fi movie energy you've
seen you're probably already thinking of
a certain movie that has that sort of
energy this has that and the fact that
these ideas of what people want to do in
VR are so universally well-liked and so
cool that means that there's something
here there's something that people want
even in this first generation now will
all this new attention on VR headsets in
general shine a lot of light on all of
the other much cheaper competitors that
you should probably buy instead of this
one like the $500 Quest
3 yeah now will all this new developer
attention in this VR AR space bring a
lot of way cooler way more awesome
applications that will rapidly improve
the value proposition of this $3,500
first gen
headset
yeah should you go out and buy one of
these if you've got the money and you
saw one or two really cool looking apps
that you want to try from the
videos sure why not it's your money but
I'm already very excited for the Next
Generation thanks for
watching catch you guys in the next one
peace